Convention on the Limitation Period in the
International Sale of Goods as amended by
the Protocol amending the Convention on
the Limitation Period in the International
Sale Of Goods
PREAMBLE
The States Parties to the present Convention,
Considering that international trade is an important factor in the promotion of friendly relations amongst States,
Believing that the adoption of uniform rules governing the limitation
period in the international sale of goods would facilitate the development
of world trade,
Have agreed as follows:

Part I.

Substantive provisions

SPHERE OF APPLICATION
Article 1
(1) This Convention shall determine when claims of a buyer and a
seller against each other arising from a contract of international sale of goods
or relating to its breach, termination or invalidity can no longer be exercised
by reason of the expiration of a period of time. Such a period of time is
hereinafter referred to as "the limitation period".
(2) This Convention shall not affect a particular time-limit within
which one party is required, as a condition for the acquisition or exercise
of his claim, to give notice to the other party or perform any act other than
the institution of legal proceedings.



(3) In this Convention:
(a) "buyer", "seller" and "party" mean persons who buy or sell, or
agree to buy or sell, goods, and the successors to and assigns of their rights
or obligations under the contract of sale;
(b) "creditor" means a party who asserts a claim, whether or not such
a claim is for a sum of money;
(c) "debtor" means a party against whom a creditor asserts a claim;
(d) "breach of contract" means the failure of a party to perform the
contract or any performance not in conformity with the contract;
(e) "legal proceedings" includes judicial, arbitral and administrative
proceedings;
(f) "person" includes corporation, company, partnership, association
or entity, whether private or public, which can sue or be sued;
(g) "writing" includes telegram and telex;
(h) "year" means a year according to the Gregorian calendar.

Article 2*
For the purposes of this Convention:
(a) a contract of sale of goods shall be considered international if, at
the time of the conclusion of the contract, the buyer and the seller have
their places of business in different States;
(b) the fact that the parties have their places of business in different
States shall be disregarded whenever this fact does not appear either from
the contract or from any dealings between, or from information disclosed
by, the parties at any time before or at the conclusion of the contract;
(c) where a party to a contract of sale of goods has places of business
in more than one State, the place of business shall be that which has the
closest relationship to the contract and its performance, having regard to the
circumstances known to or contemplated by the parties at the time of the
conclusion of the contract;
(d) where a party does not have a place of business, reference shall
be made to his habitual residence;
(e) neither the nationality of the parties nor the civil or commercial
character of the parties or of the contract shall be taken into
consideration.
* Article 2 of the authentic English text is reproduced as corrected in depositary notification
C.N.106.1991.Treaties-2 of 29 February 1992.




Article 3*
(1) This Convention shall apply only
(a) if, at the time of the conclusion of the contract, the places of business of the parties to a contract of international sale of goods are in Contracting States; or
(b) if the rules of private international law make the law of a Contracting State applicable to the contract of sale.
(2) This Convention shall not apply when the parties have expressly
excluded its application.

Article 4**
This Convention shall not apply to sales:
(a) of goods bought for personal, family or household use, unless the
seller, at any time before or at the conclusion of the contract, neither knew
nor ought to have known that the goods were bought for any such use;
(b) by auction;
(c) on execution or otherwise by authority of law;
(d) of stocks, shares, investment securities, negotiable instruments or
money;
(e) of ships, vessels, hovercraft or aircraft;
(f) of electricity.

* Text as amended in accordance with article I of the 1980 Protocol. States that make a declaration
under article 36 bis (article XII of the 1980 Protocol) will be bound by article 3 as originally adopted
in the Limitation Convention, 1974. Article 3 as originally adopted reads as follows:
"Article 3
(1) This Convention shall apply only if, at the time of the conclusion of the contract, the places
of business of the parties to a contract of international sale of goods are in Contracting States.
(2) Unless this Convention provides otherwise, it shall apply irrespective of the law which would
otherwise be applicable by virtue of the rules of private international law.
(3) This Convention shall not apply when the parties have expressly excluded its application."
** Text of paragraphs (a) and (e) as amended in accordance with article II of the 1980 Protocol.
Paragraphs (a) and (e) of article 4 as originally adopted in the Limitation Convention, 1974, prior to its
amendment under the 1980 Protocol, read as follows:
"(a) of goods bought for personal, family or household use; 
(e) of ships, vessels, or aircraft;".



Article 5
This Convention shall not apply to claims based upon:
(a) death of, or personal injury to, any person;
(b) nuclear damage caused by the goods sold;
(c) a lien, mortgage or other security interest in property;
(d) a judgement or award made in legal proceedings;
(e) a document on which direct enforcement or execution can be obtained in accordance with the law of the place where such enforcement or
execution is sought;
(f) a bill of exchange, cheque or promissory note.

Article 6
(1) This Convention shall not apply to contracts in which the preponderant part of the obligations of the seller consists in the supply of labour
or other services.
(2) Contracts for the supply of goods to be manufactured or produced
shall be considered to be sales, unless the party who orders the goods undertakes to supply a substantial part of the materials necessary for such
manufacture or production.

Article 7
In the interpretation and application of the provisions of this Convention,
regard shall be had to its international character and to the need to promote
uniformity.

THE DURATION AND COMMENCEMENT OF THE
LIMITATION PERIOD
Article 8
The limitation period shall be four years.

Article 9
(1) Subject to the provisions of articles 10, 11 and 12 the limitation
period shall commence on the date [on] which the claim accrues.


(2) The commencement of the limitation period shall not be postponed by:
(a) a requirement that the party be given a notice as described in
paragraph 2 of article 1, or
(b) a provision in an arbitration agreement that no right shall arise
until an arbitration award has been made.

Article 10
(1) A claim arising from a breach of contract shall accrue on the date
on which such breach occurs.
(2) A claim arising from a defect or other lack of conformity shall
accrue on the date on which the goods are actually handed over to, or their
tender is refused by, the buyer.
(3) A claim based on fraud committed before or at the time of the
conclusion of the contract or during its performance shall accrue on the date
on which the fraud was or reasonably could have been discovered.

Article 11
If the seller has given an express undertaking relating to the goods
which is stated to have effect for a certain period of time, whether expressed
in terms of a specific period of time or otherwise, the limitation period in
respect of any claim, arising from the undertaking shall commence on the
date on which the buyer notifies the seller of the fact on which the claim
is based, but not later than on the date of the expiration of the period of
the undertaking.

Article 12
(1) If, in circumstances provided for by the law applicable to the contract, one party is entitled to declare the contract terminated before the time
for performance is due, and exercises this right, the limitation period in
respect of a claim based on any such circumstances shall commence on the
date on which the declaration is made to the other party. If the contract is
not declared to be terminated before performance becomes due, the limitation period shall commence on the date on which performance is due.
(2) The limitation period in respect of a claim arising out of a breach
by one party of a contract for the delivery of or payment for goods by



instalments shall, in relation to each separate instalment, commence on the
date on which the particular breach occurs. If, under the law applicable to
the contract, one party is entitled to declare the contract terminated by reason
of such breach, and exercises this right, the limitation period in respect of
all relevant instalments shall commence on the date on which the declaration
is made to the other party.

CESSATION AND EXTENSION OF THE LIMITATION PERIOD
Article 13
The limitation period shall cease to run when the creditor performs any
act which, under the law of the court where the proceedings are instituted,
is recognized as commencing judicial proceedings against the debtor or as
asserting his claim in such proceedings already instituted against the debtor,
for the purpose of obtaining satisfaction or recognition of his claim.

Article 14
1. Where the parties have agreed to submit to arbitration, the limitation period shall cease to run when either party commences arbitral proceedings in the manner provided for in the arbitration agreement or by the law
applicable to such proceedings.
2. In the absence of any such provision, arbitral proceedings shall be
deemed to commence on the date on which a request that the claim in
dispute be referred to arbitration is delivered at the habitual residence or
place of business of the other party or, if he has no such residence or place
of business, then at his last known residence or place of business.

Article 15*
In any legal proceedings other than those mentioned in articles 13 and 14,
including legal proceedings commenced upon the occurrence of:
(a) the death or incapacity of the debtor,
(b) the bankruptcy or any state of insolvency affecting the whole of
the property of the debtor, or
(c) the dissolution or liquidation of a corporation, company, partnership,
association or entity when it is the debtor,
* Article 15 of the authentic English text is reproduced as corrected in depositary notification
C.N.106.1991.Treaties-2 of 29 February 1992.



the limitation period shall cease to run when the creditor asserts his claim
in such proceedings for the purpose of obtaining satisfaction or recognition
of the claim, subject to the law governing the proceedings.

Article 16
For the purposes of articles 13, 14 and 15, any act performed by way
of counterclaim shall be deemed to have been performed on the same date
as the act performed in relation to the claim against which the counterclaim
is raised, provided that both the claim and the counterclaim relate to the
same contract or to several contracts concluded in the course of the same
transaction.

Article 17
(1) Where a claim has been asserted in legal proceedings within the
limitation period in accordance with article 13, 14, 15 or 16, but such legal
proceedings have ended without a decision binding on the merits of the
claim, the limitation period shall be deemed to have continued to run.
(2) If, at the time such legal proceedings ended, the limitation period
has expired or has less than one year to run, the creditor shall be entitled to
a period of one year from the date on which the legal proceedings ended.

Article 18
(1) Where legal proceedings have been commenced against one debtor,
the limitation period prescribed in this Convention shall cease to run against
any other party jointly and severally liable with the debtor, provided that
the creditor informs such party in writing within that period that the proceedings have been commenced.
(2) Where legal proceedings have been commenced by a subpurchaser
against the buyer, the limitation period prescribed in this Convention shall
cease to run in relation to the buyer's claim over against the seller, if the
buyer informs the seller in writing within that period that the proceedings
have been commenced.
(3) Where the legal proceedings referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of
this article have ended, the limitation period in respect of the claim of the
creditor or the buyer against the party jointly and severally liable or against
the seller shall be deemed not to have ceased running by virtue of paragraphs 1




and 2 of this article, but the creditor or the buyer shall be entitled to an
additional year from the date on which the legal proceedings ended, if at that
time the limitation period had expired or had less than one year to run.

Article 19
Where the creditor performs, in the State in which the debtor has his place
of business and before the expiration of the limitation period, any act, other
than the acts described in articles 13, 14, 15 and 16, which under the law of
that State has the effect of recommencing a limitation period, a new limitation
period of four years shall commence on the date prescribed by that law.

Article 20
(1) Where the debtor, before the expiration of the limitation period, acknowledges in writing his obligation to the creditor, a new limitation period of
four years shall commence to run from the date of such acknowledgement.
(2) Payment of interest or partial performance of an obligation by the
debtor shall have the same effect as an acknowledgement under paragraph 1
of this article if it can reasonably be inferred from such payment or performance that the debtor acknowledges that obligation.

Article 21
Where, as a result of a circumstance which is beyond the control of the
creditor and which he could neither avoid nor overcome, the creditor has been
prevented from causing the limitation period to cease to run, the limitation
period shall be extended so as not to expire before the expiration of one year
from the date on which the relevant circumstance ceased to exist.

MODIFICATION OF THE LIMITATION PERIOD BY THE PARTIES
Article 22*
(1) The limitation period cannot be modified or affected by any declaration or agreement between the parties, except in the cases provided for
in paragraph 2 of this article.
* Article 22 of the authentic English text is reproduced as corrected in depositary notification
C.N.106.1991.Treaties-2 of 29 February 1992.



(2) The debtor may at any time during the running of the limitation
period extend the period by a declaration in writing to the creditor. This
declaration may be renewed.
(3) The provisions of this article shall not affect the validity of a clause
in the contract of sale which stipulates that arbitral proceedings shall be
commenced within a shorter period of limitation than that prescribed by this
Convention, provided that such clause is valid under the law applicable to
the contract of sale.

GENERAL LIMIT OF THE LIMITATION PERIOD
Article 23
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Convention, a limitation period
shall in any event expire not later than ten years from the date on which it
commenced to run under articles 9, 10, 11 and 12 of this Convention.

CONSEQUENCES OF THE EXPIRATION OF THE
LIMITATION PERIOD
Article 24
Expiration of the limitation period shall be taken into consideration in
any legal proceedings only if invoked by a party to such proceedings.

Article 25
(1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this article and of
article 24, no claim shall be recognized or enforced in any legal proceedings
commenced after the expiration of the limitation period.
(2) Notwithstanding the expiration of the limitation period, one party
may rely on his claim as a defence or for the purpose of set-off against a
claim asserted by the other party, provided that in the latter case this may
only be done:
(a) if both claims relate to the same contract or to several contracts
concluded in the course of the same transaction; or
(b) if the claims could have been set-off at any time before the expiration of the limitation period.



Article 26
Where the debtor performs his obligation after the expiration of the
limitation period, he shall not on that ground be entitled in any way to claim
restitution even if he did not know at the time when he performed his
obligation that the limitation period had expired.

Article 27
The expiration of the limitation period with respect to a principal debt
shall have the same effect with respect to an obligation to pay interest on
that debt.

CALCULATION OF THE PERIOD
Article 28
(1) The limitation period shall be calculated in such a way that it shall
expire at the end of the day which corresponds to the date on which the period
commenced to run. If there is no such corresponding date, the period shall
expire at the end of the last day of the last month of the limitation period.
(2) The limitation period shall be calculated by reference to the date
of the place where the legal proceedings are instituted.

Article 29
Where the last day of the limitation period falls on an official holiday
or other dies non juridicus precluding the appropriate legal action in the
jurisdiction where the creditor institutes legal proceedings or asserts a claim
as envisaged in article 13, 14 or 15, the limitation period shall be extended
so as not to expire until the end of the first day following that official holiday
or dies non juridicus on which such proceedings could be instituted or on
which such a claim could be asserted in that jurisdiction.

INTERNATIONAL EFFECT
Article 30
The acts and circumstances referred to in articles 13 through 19 which
have taken place in one Contracting State shall have effect for the purposes

\

of this Convention in another Contracting State, provided that the creditor
has taken all reasonable steps to ensure that the debtor is informed of the
relevant act or circumstances as soon as possible.

Part II.

Implementation
Article 31

(1) If a Contracting State has two or more territorial units in which,
according to its constitution, different systems of law are applicable in relation to the matters dealt with in this Convention, it may, at the time of
signature, ratification or accession, declare that this Convention shall extend
to all its territorial units or only to one or more of them, and may amend
its declaration by submitting another declaration at any time.
(2) These declarations shall be notified to the Secretary-General of the
United Nations and shall state expressly the territorial units to which the
Convention applies.
(3) If a Contracting State described in paragraph 1 of this article makes
no declaration at the time of signature, ratification or accession, the Convention shall have effect within all territorial units of that State.
(4)* If, by virtue of a declaration under this article, this Convention
extends to one or more but not all of the territorial units of a Contracting
State, and if the place of business of a party to a contract is located in that
State, this place of business shall, for the purposes of this Convention, be
considered not to be in a Contracting State, unless it is in a territorial unit
to which the Convention extends.

Article 32
Where in this Convention reference is made to the law of a State in
which different systems of law apply, such reference shall be construed to
mean the law of the particular legal system concerned.

Article 33
Each Contracting State shall apply the provisions of this Convention to contracts concluded on or after the date of the entry into force of this Convention.
* New paragraph 4, added in accordance with article III of the 1980 Protocol.




Part III. Declarations and reservations
Article 34*
(1) Two or more Contracting States which have the same or closely
related legal rules on matters governed by this Convention may at any time
declare that the Convention shall not apply to contracts of international sale
of goods where the parties have their places of business in those States. Such
declarations may be made jointly or by reciprocal unilateral declarations.
(2) A Contracting State which has the same or closely related legal
rules on matters governed by this Convention as one or more non-Contracting States may at any time declare that the Convention shall not apply to
contracts of international sale of goods where the parties have their places
of business in those States.
(3) If a State which is the object of a declaration under paragraph 2
of this article subsequently becomes a Contracting State, the declaration
made shall, as from the date on which this Convention enters into force in
respect of the new Contracting State, have the effect of a declaration made
under paragraph 1, provided that the new Contracting State joins in such
declaration or makes a reciprocal unilateral declaration.

Article 35
A Contracting State may declare, at the time of the deposit of its instrument of ratification or accession, that it will not apply the provisions of this
Convention to actions for annulment of the contract.

Article 36
Any State may declare, at the time of the deposit of its instrument of
ratification or accession, that it shall not be compelled to apply the provisions of article 24 of this Convention.

* Text as amended in accordance with article IV of the 1980 Protocol. Article 34 as originally
adopted in the Limitation Convention, 1974, prior to its amendment under the 1980 Protocol, read as
follows:
"Article 34
Two or more Contracting States may at any time declare that contracts of sale between a seller
having a place of business in one of these States and a buyer having a place of business in another of
these States shall not be governed by this Convention, because they apply to the matters governed by
this Convention the same or closely related legal rules."



Article 36 bis (Article XII of the Protocol)
Any State may declare at the time of the deposit of its instrument of
accession or its notification under article 43 bis that it will not be bound by
the amendments to article 3 made by article I of the 1980 Protocol.* A
declaration made under this article shall be in writing and be formally
notified to the depositary.

Article 37**,***
This Convention shall not prevail over any international agreement
which has already been or may be entered into and which contains provisions concerning the matters governed by this Convention, provided that the
seller and buyer have their places of business in States parties to such
agreement.

Article 38
(1) A Contracting State which is a party to an existing convention
relating to the international sale of goods may declare, at the time of the
deposit of its instrument of ratification or accession, that it will apply this
Convention exclusively to contracts of international sale of goods as defined
in such existing convention.
(2) Such declaration shall cease to be effective on the first day of the
month following the expiration of twelve months after a new convention on
the international sale of goods, concluded under the auspices of the United
Nations, shall have entered into force.

Article 39
No reservation other than those made in accordance with articles 34,
35, 36, 36 bis and 38 shall be permitted.
* Such a State will then be bound by article 3 of the unamended Convention. For its text, see
footnote under article 3.
** Text as amended in accordance with article V of the Protocol. Article 37 as originally adopted
in the Limitation Convention, 1974, prior to its amendment under the 1980 Protocol, read as follows:
"Article 37
This Convention shall not prevail over conventions already entered into or which may be entered
into, and which contain provisions concerning the matters covered by this Convention, provided that the
seller and buyer have their places of business in States parties to such a convention."
*** Article 37 of the authentic English text is reproduced as corrected in depositary notification
C.N.106.1991.Treaties-2 of 29 February 1992.



Article 40
(1) Declarations made under this Convention shall be addressed to
the Secretary-General of the United Nations and shall take effect simultaneously with the entry of this Convention into force in respect of the State
concerned, except declarations made thereafter. The latter declarations shall
take effect on the first day of the month following the expiration of six
months after the date of their receipt by the Secretary-General of the
United Nations. Reciprocal unilateral declarations under article 34 shall
take effect on the first day of the month following the expiration of six
months after the receipt of the latest declaration by the Secretary-General
of the United Nations.*
(2) Any State which has made a declaration under this Convention
may withdraw it at any time by a notification addressed to the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations. Such withdrawal shall take effect on the first
day of the month following the expiration of six months after the date of
the receipt of the notification by the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
In the case of a declaration made under article 34 of this Convention, such
withdrawal shall also render inoperative, as from the date on which the
withdrawal takes effect, any reciprocal declaration made by another State
under that article.

Part IV.

Final clauses

Article 41
This Convention** shall be open until 31 December 1975 for signature
by all States at the Headquarters of the United Nations.

Article 42
This Convention** is subject to ratification. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.

* Last sentence of paragraph 1 of article 40 added in accordance with article VI of the 1980
Protocol.
** Refers to the 1974 Limitation Convention.



Article 43
This Convention* shall remain open for accession by any State. The
instruments of accession shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of
the United Nations.

Article 43 bis** (Article X of the Protocol)
If a State ratifies or accedes to the 1974 Limitation Convention after
the entry into force of the 1980 Protocol, the ratification or accession shall
also constitute a ratification of or an accession to the Convention as amended
by the 1980 Protocol if the State notifies the depositary accordingly.

Article 43 ter (Article VIII (2) of the Protocol)
Accession to the 1980 Protocol by any State which is not a Contracting
Party to the 1974 Limitation Convention shall have the effect of accession
to that Convention as amended by the Protocol, subject to the provisions of
article 44 bis.

Article 44
(1) This Convention shall enter into force on the first day of the month
following the expiration of six months after the date of the deposit of the
tenth instrument of ratification or accession.
(2) For each State ratifying or acceding to this Convention after the
deposit of the tenth instrument of ratification or accession, this Convention
shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiration
of six months after the date of the deposit of its instrument of ratification
or accession.

Article 44 bis (Article XI of the Protocol)
Any State which becomes a Contracting Party to the 1974 Limitation
Convention, as amended by the 1980 Protocol, shall, unless it notifies the
depositary to the contrary, be considered to be also a Contracting Party to
* Refers to the 1974 Limitation Convention.
** Article 43 bis of the authentic English text is reproduced as corrected in depositary notification
C.N.106.1991.Treaties-2 of 29 February 1992.



the Convention, unamended, in relation to any Contracting Party to the
Convention not yet a Contracting Party to the 1980 Protocol.

Article 45
(1) Any Contracting State may denounce this Convention by notifying
the Secretary-General of the United Nations to that effect.
(2) The denunciation shall take effect on the first day of the month
following the expiration of twelve months after receipt of the notification
by the Secretary-General of the United Nations.

Article 45 bis* (Article XIII (3) of the Protocol)
Any Contracting State in respect of which the 1980 Protocol ceases to
have effect by the application of paragraphs (1) and (2)** of article XIII of
the 1980 Protocol shall remain a Contracting Party to the 1974 Limitation
Convention, unamended, unless it denounces the unamended Convention in
accordance with article 45 of that Convention.

Article 46
The original of this Convention, of which the Chinese, English, French,
Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the
Secretary-General of the United Nations.***

*Article 45 bis of the authentic English text is reproduced as corrected in depositary notification
C.N.106.1991.Treaties-2 of 29 February 1992.
** Paragraphs (1) and (2) of article XIII of the Protocol read as follows:
"(1) A Contracting State may denounce this Protocol by notifying the depositary to that effect.
(2) The denunciation shall take effect on the first day of the month following the expiration of
twelve months after receipt of the notification by the depositary."

*** The authentic Arabic text was adopted in 1992 as communicated by depositary notification
C.N.470.1992.TREATIES-5 of 2 June 1993.

III. Explanatory note by the UNCITRAL
Secretariat on the Convention on
the Limitation Period in the International Sale
of Goods and the Protocol
amending the Convention on the Limitation
Period in the International Sale of Goods
This note has been prepared by the secretariat of the United Nations
Commission on International Trade Law for informational purposes; it is
not an official commentary on the Convention. A commentary on the
unamended Convention prepared at the request of the United Nations
Conference on Prescription (Limitation) in the International Sale of Goods
appears in A/CONF.63/17 (reprinted in Yearbook of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law, vol. X:1979 (United Nations Publication,
Sales No. E.81.V.2), part three, chap. I).
A.

Introduction

1. The Convention on the Limitation Period in the International Sale of
Goods (New York, 1974) provides uniform international legal rules governing the period of time within which a party under a contract for the international sale of goods must commence legal proceedings against the other
party to assert a claim arising from the contract or relating to its breach,
termination or invalidity. This period is referred to in the Convention as the
"limitation period". The basic aims of the limitation period are to prevent
the institution of legal proceedings at such a late date that the evidence
relating to the claim is likely to be unreliable or lost and to protect against
the uncertainty and ijustice that would result if a party were to remain
exposed to unasserted claims for an extensive period of time.
2. The Limitation Convention grew out of the work of the United Nations
Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) towards the harmonization and unification of international sales law, which also resulted
in the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of
Goods (Vienna, 1980) (hereinafter referred to as the "United Nations Sales
Convention"). During that work it was observed that, while most legal

Systems limited or prescribed a claim from being asserted after the lapse of
a specified period of time, numerous disparities existed among legal systems
with respect to the conceptual basis for doing so. As a result there were
disparities in the length of the period and in the rules governing the limitation or prescription of claims after that period. Those disparities created
difficulties in the enforcement of claims arising from international sales
transactions, and thus burdened international trade.
3. In view of those problems UNCITRAL decided to prepare uniform
international legal rules on the limitation period in the international sale of
goods. On the basis of a draft Convention prepared by UNCITRAL, a diplomatic conference convened in New York by the General Assembly adopted
the Limitation Convention on 14 June 1974.
4. The Limitation Convention was amended by a Protocol adopted in 1980
by the diplomatic conference that adopted the United Nations Sales Convention, in order to harmonize the Limitation Convention with the latter Convention, in particular, with regard to scope of application and admissible
declarations. As a result, the scope of application of the amended Limitation
Convention and that of the United Nations Sales Convention are identical.
5. The Limitation Convention entered into force on 1 August 1988. As of
1 October 2011, 29 States are parties to the unamended Convention and 21
of those 29 States are parties to the amended Convention. The current updated
status of the Convention is available on the UNCITRAL website.1 Authoritative information on the status of the Convention, as well as on related declarations, including with respect to territorial application and succession of States,
may be found on the United Nations Treaty Collection on the Internet.2
B.

Scope of application

6. The Convention applies to contracts for the sale of goods between parties whose places of business are in different States if both of those States
are Contracting States. Under the 1980 Protocol the Convention also applies
if the rules of private international law make the law of a Contracting State
applicable to the contract. However, in becoming a party to the Protocol a
State may declare that it will not be bound by that provision. Each Contracting State must apply the Convention to contracts concluded on or after the
date of the entry into force of the Convention.




7. The application of the Convention is excluded in certain situations.
Firstly, the Convention will not apply if the parties to a sales contract 
Exressly exclude its application. This provision gives effect to the basic
principle of freedom of contract in the international sale of goods. Secondly,
the Convention will not apply in certain cases where matters covered by
the Convention are governed by other Conventions. Thirdly, Contracting
States are permitted to deposit declarations excluding the application of
the Convention in the following situations: two or more Contracting States
may exclude the application of the Convention to contracts between parties having their places of business in those States when the States apply to
those contracts the same or closely related legal rules. So far, one State
has made that declaration. In addition, a State may exclude the application
of the Convention to actions for annulment of the contract. No State has
thus far availed itself of such a declaration.
8. Since the Convention applies only in respect of international sales
contracts, it clarifies whether contracts involving certain services are covered. A contract for the supply of goods to be manufactured or produced
is considered to be a sales contract unless the party who orders the goods
undertakes to supply a substantial part of the materials necessary for their
manufacture or production. Furthermore, when the preponderant part of
the obligations of the party who furnishes the goods consists in the supply
of labour or other services, the Convention does not apply.
9. The Convention contains a list of types of sales that are excluded
from the Convention, either because of the purpose of the sale (goods
bought for personal, family or household use (under the 1980 Protocol
sales of those goods are covered by the Convention if the seller could not
have known that they were bought for such use)), the nature of the sale
(sales by auction, on execution or otherwise by law) or the nature of the
goods (stocks, shares, investment securities, negotiable instruments, money,
ships, vessels, aircraft or electricity (the 1980 Protocol adds hovercraft)).
10. The Convention makes it clear that it applies only to the usual type
of commercial claims based on contract. It specifically excludes claims
based on death or personal injury; nuclear damage; a lien, mortgage or
other security interest; a judgment or award; a document on which direct
enforcement or execution can be obtained; and a bill of exchange, cheque
or promissory note. The limitation periods for those claims are generally
subject to particular rules and it would not necessarily be appropriate to
apply in respect of those claims the rules applicable to ordinary commercial
contractual claims.



C. Duration and commencement of limitation period
11. The duration of the limitation period under the Convention is four years.
The period cannot be modified by agreement of the parties, but it can be
extended by a written declaration of the debtor during the running of the
period. Also, the contract of sale may stipulate a shorter period for the commencement of arbitral proceedings, if the stipulation is valid under the law
applicable to the contract. Rules are provided as to how the limitation period
should be calculated.
12. A limitation period of four years' duration was thought to accomplish
the aims of the limitation period and yet to provide an adequate period of
time to enable a party to an international sales contract to assert his claim
against the other party. Circumstances where an extension or recommencement of the limitation period would be justified are dealt with in particular
provisions of the Convention.
13. With respect to the time when the limitation period commences to run,
the basic rule is that it commences on the date on which the claim accrues.
The Convention establishes when claims for breach of contract, for defects
in the goods or other lack of conformity and for fraud are deemed to accrue.
Special rules are provided for the commencement of the limitation period
in two particular cases: where the seller has given the buyer an express
undertaking (such as a warranty or guarantee) relating to the goods which
is stated to have effect for a certain period of time, and where a party terminates the contract before the time for performance is due. Rules are also
provided in respect of claims arising from the breach of an instalment contract and claims based on circumstances giving rise to a termination of an
instalment contract.
D.

Cessation and extension of limitation period

14. Having established the time of commencement and the length of the
limitation period, the Convention sets forth rules concerning the cessation
of the period. The period ceases to run when the claimant commences judicial or arbitral proceedings against the debtor, or when he asserts his claim
in existing proceedings. A counterclaim is deemed to have been asserted on
the same date as the date when the proceedings in which the counterclaim
is asserted were commenced, if the counterclaim and the claim against which
it is raised relate to the same contract or to several contracts concluded in
the course of the same transaction.
15. Judicial or arbitral proceedings commenced by a claimant within the
limitation period might terminate without a binding decision on the merits


of the claim, for example, because the court or arbitral tribunal lacks jurisdiction or because of a procedural defect. The creditor would normally be
able to pursue his claim by commencing new proceedings. Thus, the Convention provides that if the original proceedings end without a binding decision on the merits the limitation period will be deemed to have continued
to run. However, by the time the original proceedings have ended, the limitation period might have expired, or there might remain insufficient time for
the claimant to commence new proceedings. To protect the claimant in those
cases the Convention grants him an additional period of one year to commence new proceedings.
16. The Convention contains rules to resolve in a uniform manner questions
concerning the running of the limitation period in two particular cases. Firstly,
it provides that where legal proceedings have been commenced against one
party to the sales contract, the limitation period ceases to run against a person
jointly and severally liable with him if the claimant informs that person in
writing within the limitation period that the proceedings have been commenced. Secondly, it provides that where proceedings have been commenced
against a buyer by a party who purchased the goods from him, the limitation
period ceases to run in respect of the buyer's recourse claim against the seller
if the buyer informs the seller in writing within the limitation period that the
proceedings against the buyer have been commenced. Where the proceedings
in either of those two cases have ended, the limitation period in respect of
the claim against the jointly and severally liable person or against the seller
will be deemed to have continued to run without interruption, but there will
be an additional year to commence new proceedings if at that time the limitation period has expired or has less than a year to run.
17. One effect of the provision mentioned above relating to the buyer is to
enable him to await the outcome of the claim against him before commencing an action against the seller. This enables the buyer to avoid the trouble
and expense of instituting proceedings against the seller and the disruption
of their good business relationship if it turns out that the claim against the
buyer was not successful.
18. Under the Convention the limitation period recommences in two cases:
if the creditor performs in the debtor's State an act that, under the law of
that State, has the effect of recommencing a limitation period, or if the
debtor acknowledges in writing his obligation to the creditor or pays interest
or partially performs the obligation from which his acknowledgement can
be inferred.
19. The Convention protects a creditor who was prevented from taking the
necessary acts to stop the running of the limitation period in extreme cases.




It provides that when the creditor could not take those acts as a result of a
circumstance beyond his control and which he could neither avoid nor overcome, the limitation period will be extended so as to expire one year after
the date when the circumstance ceased to exist.
E.

Overall limit of limitation period

20. Since the limitation period may, under the circumstances noted above,
be extended or recommence, the Convention establishes an overall time
period of 10 years, from the date on which the limitation period originally
commenced to run, beyond which no legal proceedings to assert the claim
may be commenced under any circumstances. The theory behind that provision is that enabling proceedings to be brought after that time would be
inconsistent with the aims of the Convention in providing a definite limitation period.
F.

Consequences of expiration of limitation period

21. The principal consequence of the expiration of the limitation period is
that no claim will be recognized or enforced in legal proceedings commenced thereafter. The expiration of the limitation period will not be taken
into consideration in legal proceedings unless it is invoked by a party to the
proceedings. However, in light of views expressed at the diplomatic conference that adopted the Convention that the limitation or prescription of actions
was a matter of public policy and that a court should be able to take the
expiration of the limitation period into account on its own initiative, a Contracting State is permitted to declare that it will not apply that provision.
No State has thus far made such a declaration.
22. Even after the limitation period has expired a party can in certain situations raise his claim as a defence to or set-off against a claim asserted by
the other party.
G.

Other provisions and final clauses

23. Other provisions of the Convention deal with implementation of the
Convention in States having two or more territorial units where different
legal systems exist. A series of provisions deals with declarations and reservations permitted under the Convention and with procedures for making
and withdrawing them. The permitted declarations and reservations have
been mentioned above; no others may be made under the Convention.
24. The final clauses contain the usual provisions relating to the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations as depositary of the Convention. The Convention


is subject to ratification by States that signed it before 31 December 1975
and for accession by States that did not do so. The Arabic, Chinese, English,
French, Russian and Spanish texts of the Convention are equally
authentic.3
25. The Secretary-General of the United Nations is also the depositary of
the 1980 Protocol amending the Convention, which is open for accession
by all States. Since the Protocol had already received the necessary number
of accessions, the Convention as amended by the Protocol entered into force
on the same date as the unamended Convention on 1 August 1988.
26. A State that ratifies or accedes to the Convention after the Convention
and Protocol come into force will become a party to the unamended Convention as well unless it notifies the depositary to the contrary. The Convention as amended will enter into force for that State on the first day of the
month following the expiration of 6 months after the date of deposit of its
instrument of ratification or accession. Accession to the Protocol by a State
that is not a Contracting Party to the Convention constitutes accession to
the Convention as amended by the Protocol.
H.

Complementary texts

27. The Limitation Convention is complemented by the United Nations
Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods (the United
Nations Sales Convention, also known as "CISG"). Adopted by a diplomatic
conference on 11 April 1980, the United Nations Sales Convention establishes a comprehensive code of legal rules governing the formation of contracts for the international sale of goods, the obligations of the buyer and
seller, remedies for breach of contract and other aspects of the contract.
28. The Limitation Convention is also complemented, with respect to the
use of electronic communications, by the United Nations Convention on the
Use of Electronic Communications in International Contracts, 2005 (the
Electronic Communications Convention). The Electronic Communications
Convention aims at facilitating the use of electronic communications in international trade by assuring that contracts concluded and other communications exchanged electronically are as valid and enforceable as their traditional paper-based equivalents. In particular, certain formal requirements
contained in widely adopted international trade law treaties may hinder the
legal recognition of the use of electronic communications. The Electronic
Communications Convention is an enabling treaty whose effect is to remove
3
The authentic Arabic text was adopted in 1992 as communicated by depositary notification
C.N.470.1992.TREATIES-5 of 2 June 1993.

